So our stock price component is taking shape, we're fetching data now,
we added some basic validation,
we also have different states for different results of our API calls.
Now one thing is missing or one thing can be added,
right now we can use this component only from inside,
we can enter a value here and that's it
but in reality, we might want to be able to pass in a stock symbol from outside,
so as an attribute to this component here in our DOM to initialize this component with that stock symbol
or not only to initialize with it but also to change it at runtime because you always have to keep
in mind that you're building these components to be used in other web applications and in such a web application,
the developer building that web application might also have a different possibility for the users of
that app to set the stock price.
So besides that built-in input here, it would be great if we could set the stock symbol from outside
and that is what I want to do next,
I want to accept a property stock symbol that can be set from both in and outside.
Now for that, I will add a new property with the prop decorator here which needs to be imported from
@stencil/core and I'll name this stock symbol,
this will be a string. Now stock symbol is what can be set from outside this component, so passed
in as an attribute or set directly as a property of course programmatically.
This stock symbol should be considered when we make a request here and this constant stock symbol is
not the same as this property of course, constants live inside of the scope of this method,
properties are class wide.
So how can we now use such a potentially existing stock symbol?
So here in onFetchStockPrice, I actually always want to use the user input because this gets triggered
when this button gets pressed and when this button gets pressed, I certainly want to respect what the
user enters.
So we don't really need to check for the existence of a stock symbol, so a globally set stock symbol in
onFetchStockPrice,
instead I want to fetch data for that symbol right at the start because this component can be created
with such a stock symbol set right from the start,
for example if I add it here as an attribute on this HTML element and to make a request right at the
start
when this component is first created in the DOM, I can use a lifecycle hook. Stencil offers a couple of
lifecycle hooks and we'll go through them step by step,
the first lifecycle hook I will show you is the componentDidLoad lifecycle hook which will be entered
whenever, well this component was loaded and in there, I want to check if this stock symbol is set
and if this is set, if this does hold a value, I want to make an HTTP request
and of course set my fetch price.
Essentially what I want to do is I want to make the same HTTP request as up there, so I'll actually grab
this fetch call here and add a new method,
fetchStockPrice
and there, I need the stock symbol for which the price should be fetched as an input.
So I'll expect stock symbol which is a string here as an argument in fetchStockPrice
and then this code should work just as before
and then here in onFetchStockPrice, I will call fetchStockPrice and pass on my extracted stock
symbol and here in componentDidLoad,
if we have a globally set stock symbol, so this property stock symbol, totally unrelated to this constant
here, then I also will call this fetchStockPrice here but only if this is set.
So here, I'll also set this to this stock symbol then and now let's just see if this works. If I reload this, we
have
please enter a symbol and this never changes because we have no initial stock price,
nothing gets past to stock symbol
but let's now set this attribute here.
So here on the index, I'll set stock symbol.
However important, here in the real DOM, in the HTML code you're writing outside of your render functions,
this is not a valid attribute name
or at least HTML is not case sensitive.
There you should use stock-symbol and stencil will automatically convert this to the camel case
version which you're using inside.
So stock symbol written like this will react or will be bound to the value passed to an attribute written
like this in camel case,
so with a dash between the sub words and then we can set this to Apple.
If we save that, we already see it update here
but if I reload this, it indeed gets initialized with this
but if I now enter the Microsoft symbol, we can still override this. So the functionality from before
works but now we can also start with a default symbol passed through an attribute and that is simply enabled
with a little help from our lifecycle hooks or from one specific lifecycle book.
Now let's dive into other hooks too.